README.md, before:

# Chatter
A customer service chat client built with websockets

## Getting started

### .env file

Chatter requires a .env file with the following values populated in order to work:

.env

    + `SESSION_SECRET` = session secret for express

    + `SERVER_PORT` = port number for the server to listen for connections on

    + `MONGOURL` = url of the mongo database being used (`mongodb://mongourl/databasename`)

    + `AGENT_WHITELIST` = Comma seperated IP addresses that act as a whitelist for agent access. Should probably throw this into a database somewhere, realistically this would become quite large.


## Current sprint missions

+ ~~Create a preliminary chat window UI for customer, and for agent~~
+ ~~Once created, set up the websockets server, and get it so that messages can be sent between agent/client~~
    + ~~Initial setup, use 'broadcast' to blast messages to everyone connected to the websockets~~
        + ~~Message contents kept in an object, either 'customer' or agent name, timestamp, category, unique conversation id?~~
        + ~~Upon new chat being broadcast, front-end appends the new message to the chat window~~
        + ~~To add: A way to tell a chatter if the other user disconnected~~
    + ~~From there, keep building the server to connect a customer to only ONE agent, keep the communication between only the 2 of them~~
        + ~~Need a queue of customers waiting when not enough agents~~
        + ~~Need a queue of agents waiting when not enough customers~~
        + ~~Test case 1: There are 2 agents logged in. One customer connects. Passing: Customer chat only appears to one agent~~
        + ~~Test case 2: There is 1 agent logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: One customer waits until the agent is done, messages only exchange between the agent and customer, waiting customer doesn't see the other conversation.~~
        + ~~Test case 3: There are 2 agents logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: Two concurrent conversations happen.~~
+ ~~To add to the front-end:~~
    + ~~A notification to the user (agent or customer) that they ARE in fact chatting with someone, centered in the chat window~~
    + ~~Make sure that the window renders in the right size for all browsers~~
    + ~~Make sure appropriate divs get rendered~~
+ Upon customer disconnect, add agent back to queue _IF_ there is no customer queue, otherwise match _NEXT_ customer to agent
    + Create button to let agent go back into queue upon customer disconnect
        + Clear out/refresh chat from previous conversation
    + Figure out what the hell is going on when you refresh the page? Refreshing with an open chat crashes the server.
+ TextArea stuff
    + realign textarea and submit button into straight line
    + Upon enter button being hit in the textarea, click() submit button
+ ~~When previous 3 test cases are all passing,~~ update the mongodb schema to save all conversations any agent has to their entry in the database.
    + Test case 1: Conduct 3 conversations. Passing: 3 conversations all saved, independently and properly.
    + Upon saved chats, have agent chat window open in new tab
    + Let agents access old conversations
+ DEBUGGING
    + Test cases:
        + ~~Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh agent page.~~
            + ~~Desired result: Customer notified of chat disconnection, told to F5 for new chat~~
        + ~~Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh customer page.~~
            + ~~Desired result: agent notified of chat disconnection, has new button to press to go back into the queue~~
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh agent page.
            + Desired result: Customer notified of chat disconnection, told to F5 for new chat
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh customer page.
            + Desired result: agent notified of chat disconnection, has new button to press to go back into the queue 
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh customer, then agent.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh agent, then customer.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.
        + Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh customer, then agent.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.
        + Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh agent, then customer.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.

## Next sprint mission

+ Build an actual UI for customers, and for agents
    + Customers get a basic lorem ipsum page, and links to the possible chat categories
    + Agents have an agent page, that has a link to let them become available for chats
        + Passing: test it on chrome and firefox for Ubuntu and windows, plus chrome, firefox and dolphin on android
+ Create a seperate category of agent: Administrator
    + Admins can create new agents
    + Admins can assign categories to agents
    + Admins can allow 1-4 chats per agent on the agent chat page
+ Update websockets infrastructure to match customers to agent by category only
+ Allow agents to go on "last call", and stop being added to queue upon activating when customers disconnect

## The latest updates

+ Current Sprint completions:
    + Create preliminary chat window UI for customer, and for agent
    + Once created, set up the websockets server, and get it so that messages can be sent between agent/client
        + Initial setup, use 'broadcast' to blast messages to everyone connected to the websockets
            + Message contents kept in an object, either 'customer' or agent name, timestamp, category, unique conversation id?
            + Upon new chat being broadcast, front-end appends the new message to the chat window
        + To add: A way to tell a chatter if the other user disconnected
    + From there, keep building the server to connect a customer to only ONE agent, keep the communication between only the 2 of them
        + Need a queue of customers waiting when not enough agents
        + Need a queue of agents waiting when not enough customers
        + Test case 1: There are 2 agents logged in. One customer connects. Passing: Customer chat only appears to one agent
        + Test case 2: There is 1 agent logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: One customer waits until the agent is done, messages only exchange between the agent and customer, waiting customer doesn't see the other conversation.
        + Test case 3: There are 2 agents logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: Two concurrent conversations happen.
    + To add to the front-end:
        + A notification to the user (agent or customer) that they ARE in fact chatting with someone, centered in the chat window
        + Make sure that the window renders in the right size for all browsers
        + Make sure appropriate divs get rendered
    + TextArea stuff
        + realign textarea and submit button into straight line
        + Upon enter button being hit in the textarea, click() submit button

## Outlook

Chatter is in it's initial stages. The current project outlook is as follows:

+ Customer Service Agent login
  + Keep track of number of agents logged in at any given time
  
+ Categories of Service
  + There should be 3-4 default categories of service, but can be changed/updated by the user
  + Specific agents should be assigned categories they can handle
  
+ Customer facing side
  + When customers visit, server adds customers to count of connected customers
  + Create a queue of waiting customers, by category
    + Keep track of agents in each category, when agent becomes available, connect customer that's waited longest to the agent
  + A customer's place in line is kept track of, and shown to the customer, updated in real time with websockets
 
+ Chats
  + Customer can see if agent is typing (sent via websockets)
  + Agent can see what the customer is typing, even before message is sent
  + Chats have a maximum length
  + Each chat sent shows what time the chat was sent
  + Chats are displayed so the chat *you* sent is always on the left, the other person is on the right (regardless of customer/agent  role)
  + Each chat an agent engages with gets saved to conversations in the DB

Commit message:

fixed issue that caused server to crash on refreshes, working on re-pairing clients without having to force an agent refresh

README.md, after:

# Chatter
A customer service chat client built with websockets

## Getting started

### .env file

Chatter requires a .env file with the following values populated in order to work:

.env

    + `SESSION_SECRET` = session secret for express

    + `SERVER_PORT` = port number for the server to listen for connections on

    + `MONGOURL` = url of the mongo database being used (`mongodb://mongourl/databasename`)

    + `AGENT_WHITELIST` = Comma seperated IP addresses that act as a whitelist for agent access. Should probably throw this into a database somewhere, realistically this would become quite large.


## Current sprint missions

+ ~~Create a preliminary chat window UI for customer, and for agent~~
+ ~~Once created, set up the websockets server, and get it so that messages can be sent between agent/client~~
    + ~~Initial setup, use 'broadcast' to blast messages to everyone connected to the websockets~~
        + ~~Message contents kept in an object, either 'customer' or agent name, timestamp, category, unique conversation id?~~
        + ~~Upon new chat being broadcast, front-end appends the new message to the chat window~~
        + ~~To add: A way to tell a chatter if the other user disconnected~~
    + ~~From there, keep building the server to connect a customer to only ONE agent, keep the communication between only the 2 of them~~
        + ~~Need a queue of customers waiting when not enough agents~~
        + ~~Need a queue of agents waiting when not enough customers~~
        + ~~Test case 1: There are 2 agents logged in. One customer connects. Passing: Customer chat only appears to one agent~~
        + ~~Test case 2: There is 1 agent logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: One customer waits until the agent is done, messages only exchange between the agent and customer, waiting customer doesn't see the other conversation.~~
        + ~~Test case 3: There are 2 agents logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: Two concurrent conversations happen.~~
+ ~~To add to the front-end:~~
    + ~~A notification to the user (agent or customer) that they ARE in fact chatting with someone, centered in the chat window~~
    + ~~Make sure that the window renders in the right size for all browsers~~
    + ~~Make sure appropriate divs get rendered~~
+ ~~When previous 3 test cases are all passing,~~ update the mongodb schema to save all conversations any agent has to their entry in the database.
    + Test case 1: Conduct 3 conversations. Passing: 3 conversations all saved, independently and properly.
    + Upon saved chats, have agent chat window open in new tab
    + Let agents access old conversations
+ DEBUGGING
    + Test cases:
        + ~~Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh agent page.~~
            + ~~Desired result: Customer notified of chat disconnection, told to F5 for new chat~~
        + ~~Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh customer page.~~
            + ~~Desired result: agent notified of chat disconnection, has new button to press to go back into the queue~~
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh agent page.
            + Desired result: Customer notified of chat disconnection, told to F5 for new chat
            + _ACTUAL_: Customer notified of chat disconnection, immediately reconnected to new chat
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh customer page.
            + Desired result: agent notified of chat disconnection, has new button to press to go back into the queue 
            + _ACTUAL_: Agent notified of chat disconnection, immediately reconnected to new chat
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh customer, then agent.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.
        + Connect customer first, then agent. Refresh agent, then customer.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.
        + Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh customer, then agent.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.
        + Connect agent first, then customer. Refresh agent, then customer.
            + Desired result: the two get paired into a new chat again w/o server crashing.

## Next sprint mission

+ Build an actual UI for customers, and for agents
    + Customers get a basic lorem ipsum page, and links to the possible chat categories
    + Agents have an agent page, that has a link to let them become available for chats
        + Passing: test it on chrome and firefox for Ubuntu and windows, plus chrome, firefox and dolphin on android
+ Create a seperate category of agent: Administrator
    + Admins can create new agents
    + Admins can assign categories to agents
    + Admins can allow 1-4 chats per agent on the agent chat page
+ Update websockets infrastructure to match customers to agent by category only
+ Allow agents to go on "last call", and stop being added to queue upon activating when customers disconnect

## The latest updates

+ Current Sprint completions:
    + Create preliminary chat window UI for customer, and for agent
    + Once created, set up the websockets server, and get it so that messages can be sent between agent/client
        + Initial setup, use 'broadcast' to blast messages to everyone connected to the websockets
            + Message contents kept in an object, either 'customer' or agent name, timestamp, category, unique conversation id?
            + Upon new chat being broadcast, front-end appends the new message to the chat window
        + To add: A way to tell a chatter if the other user disconnected
    + From there, keep building the server to connect a customer to only ONE agent, keep the communication between only the 2 of them
        + Need a queue of customers waiting when not enough agents
        + Need a queue of agents waiting when not enough customers
        + Test case 1: There are 2 agents logged in. One customer connects. Passing: Customer chat only appears to one agent
        + Test case 2: There is 1 agent logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: One customer waits until the agent is done, messages only exchange between the agent and customer, waiting customer doesn't see the other conversation.
        + Test case 3: There are 2 agents logged in. Two customers connect. Passing: Two concurrent conversations happen.
    + To add to the front-end:
        + A notification to the user (agent or customer) that they ARE in fact chatting with someone, centered in the chat window
        + Make sure that the window renders in the right size for all browsers
        + Make sure appropriate divs get rendered
    + TextArea stuff
        + realign textarea and submit button into straight line
        + Upon enter button being hit in the textarea, click() submit button

## Outlook

Chatter is in it's initial stages. The current project outlook is as follows:

+ Customer Service Agent login
  + Keep track of number of agents logged in at any given time
  
+ Categories of Service
  + There should be 3-4 default categories of service, but can be changed/updated by the user
  + Specific agents should be assigned categories they can handle
  
+ Customer facing side
  + When customers visit, server adds customers to count of connected customers
  + Create a queue of waiting customers, by category
    + Keep track of agents in each category, when agent becomes available, connect customer that's waited longest to the agent
  + A customer's place in line is kept track of, and shown to the customer, updated in real time with websockets
 
+ Chats
  + Customer can see if agent is typing (sent via websockets)
  + Agent can see what the customer is typing, even before message is sent
  + Chats have a maximum length
  + Each chat sent shows what time the chat was sent
  + Chats are displayed so the chat *you* sent is always on the left, the other person is on the right (regardless of customer/agent  role)
  + Each chat an agent engages with gets saved to conversations in the DB
